# Image Scaling Driver Program

## Overview

This project utilizes the NVIDIA Performance Primitives (NPP) library to scale images with hardware acceleration provided by a CUDA device. The high-level routines of the NPP library are used to load, scale, and save images. The NPP library implements hardware acceleration using lower-level CUDA library functions.

## Code Structure

```bin/```
This directory contains the binary executable (imageScalingNPP) created by the build process.

```data/```
This directory contains two subdirectories with example input images and corresponding scaled output images that were generated by imageScalingNPP with a scaling factor of 2. The input images were obtained from the open [SIPI Image Database](https://sipi.usc.edu/database/database.php) of USC.

```include/```
This directory contains source code header files that are used during the compilation process.

```lib/```
This directory contains the FreeImage library in archive format (libfreeimage.a), which is used during linking.

```src/```
This directory contains the source code of the driver program (imageScalingNPP.cpp).

```README.md```
This file contains a description of imageScalingNPP and documentation of program usage.

```Makefile```
This file is processed by the build system to compile and link imageScalingNPP.

```run.sh```
This file can be used to run imageScalingNPP and accepts three arguments, an input file, an output file, and a non-negative scaling factor as a decimal value.

## Supported Platforms

Linux (x86_64)

## Dependencies

The [CUDA Toolkit](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads) must be installed in the build and runtime environment.

## Build and Run

### Linux
The following command will compile and link the program:

```bash
make
```

## Running the Program
Run the following command from the base project directory after building the program:

```bash
./bin/imageScalingNPP --input <input_file_path> --output <output_file_path> --factor <scaling_factor>
```

In this command, <input_file_path> references the input image file, <output_file_path> is the name of the file in which the scaled output image is to be stored, and <scaling_factor> is a non-negative decimal value indicating the amount by which the image is to be scaled in each dimension.

- Cleaning the Build Directory
The following command removes build outputs and intermediate files:

```bash
make clean
```

